project-diary.md, before:

### Project Diary

##### Week 0
7/31
- Drafted this proposal and outline :)
- Researched Google Maps API
- Toyed with Craigslist data
  - Potential blocker: data is formatted terribly and is inconsistent!

8/2
- Drafted, revised, and sent out user research survey
- Received 47 responses

##### Week 1
8/3
- Analysed survey responses
- Data structure confirmed // successfully iterated through 10 sample postings
- Completed Google Maps tutorial
- Drafted user stories
- Drafted sample home page
- Met with mentor to discuss databases and architecture
- Researched Google distance matrix
- Figured out how Craigslist filters their searches
- Library that calculates distance might not be necessary b/c of Google Distance Matrix API
- Challenges:
  - When user enters address, need to query database and find all listings where x<lat<y and x2<lon<y2, which will return all points within a square
  not ideal b/c some apts won’t actually be within proper distance
  - Google distance has API limit which means I might need to only make one API call and save the results as “dummy data"
  to prevent Craigslist shutting me off will need to populate database manually for demo night
  - Maybe show example query on demo day but also show code for how you'd run in production


8/4
- set up database
- set up model and seed file!
- set up flask skeleton
- wrote base.html
- tested server
- challenge:
  - should I use SQLite & euclidean distance or Postgres & earth distance?

8/5
- wrote query for calculating distance from target location
walked through google maps tutorial and added two points to sample map
- use requests library to pull down Craigslist object every time I run seed.py
- add distance query to server
- Tested plotting multiple points on map w/ dummy data
- Challenge:
  - SQL can’t process SQRT or square; need to install extension

8/6
- Tested SQL distance query with hard coded lat/lon -- it works!
- Test SQL distance query w/ user inputted lat/lon
- Successfully connected html form with server
- Displayed results of search as text with post id, latitude, longitude, and distance from origin
- Added map to results page!
- Modify query to check for price and bedrooms
- Moved query to separate route; using AJAX to retrieve results

8/7
- Moved distance and get apartments function into model as class methods
- Wrote two unit tests for model.py
- Challenge: imgs aren't showing up

8/10
- Centered map according to origin latitude and longitude
- Created origin marker with special formatting [https://github.com/Concept211/Google-Maps-Markers#usage-premade]
- Updated event listener to prepare for calculating distance
- Wrote AJAX call and updated infoWindow with sample content
- Tested Google Distance Matrix w/ dummy data
- Calculated distance with real data
- Displayed distance results on marker
- Challenges:
  - adding event listener to each marker that calculates distance; currently piggy backed onto listener for bindinfoWindow but isn't a good long term solution
  - distance is being calculated every time user clicks marker; need to fix

8/11
- added ability to select transportation method
- add geocoding user address
- Challenge: re-seeded database & img url is still getting cut off

TODO


- distance is being calculated every time user clicks marker; need to fix
- link distance to actual Google Maps directions

- Add signup & sign in form
- switch form submission from GET to POST
- Add nav bar to allow people to modify search
- Allow registered users to save listings to their favorites
- Give markers special colors according to distance
- Add support for East Bay and Portland
- Add charts w/ average rent price, number of results

Commit message:

refactored distance calculation to use google maps python wrapper

project-diary.md, after:

### Project Diary

##### Week 0
7/31
- Drafted this proposal and outline :)
- Researched Google Maps API
- Toyed with Craigslist data
  - Potential blocker: data is formatted terribly and is inconsistent!

8/2
- Drafted, revised, and sent out user research survey
- Received 47 responses

##### Week 1
8/3
- Analysed survey responses
- Data structure confirmed // successfully iterated through 10 sample postings
- Completed Google Maps tutorial
- Drafted user stories
- Drafted sample home page
- Met with mentor to discuss databases and architecture
- Researched Google distance matrix
- Figured out how Craigslist filters their searches
- Library that calculates distance might not be necessary b/c of Google Distance Matrix API
- Challenges:
  - When user enters address, need to query database and find all listings where x<lat<y and x2<lon<y2, which will return all points within a square
  not ideal b/c some apts won’t actually be within proper distance
  - Google distance has API limit which means I might need to only make one API call and save the results as “dummy data"
  to prevent Craigslist shutting me off will need to populate database manually for demo night
  - Maybe show example query on demo day but also show code for how you'd run in production


8/4
- set up database
- set up model and seed file!
- set up flask skeleton
- wrote base.html
- tested server
- challenge:
  - should I use SQLite & euclidean distance or Postgres & earth distance?

8/5
- wrote query for calculating distance from target location
walked through google maps tutorial and added two points to sample map
- use requests library to pull down Craigslist object every time I run seed.py
- add distance query to server
- Tested plotting multiple points on map w/ dummy data
- Challenge:
  - SQL can’t process SQRT or square; need to install extension

8/6
- Tested SQL distance query with hard coded lat/lon -- it works!
- Test SQL distance query w/ user inputted lat/lon
- Successfully connected html form with server
- Displayed results of search as text with post id, latitude, longitude, and distance from origin
- Added map to results page!
- Modify query to check for price and bedrooms
- Moved query to separate route; using AJAX to retrieve results

8/7
- Moved distance and get apartments function into model as class methods
- Wrote two unit tests for model.py
- Challenge: imgs aren't showing up

8/10
- Centered map according to origin latitude and longitude
- Created origin marker with special formatting [https://github.com/Concept211/Google-Maps-Markers#usage-premade]
- Updated event listener to prepare for calculating distance
- Wrote AJAX call and updated infoWindow with sample content
- Tested Google Distance Matrix w/ dummy data
- Calculated distance with real data
- Displayed distance results on marker
- Challenges:
  - adding event listener to each marker that calculates distance; currently piggy backed onto listener for bindinfoWindow but isn't a good long term solution
  - distance is being calculated every time user clicks marker; need to fix

8/11
- added ability to select transportation method
- added geocoding to user inputted address
- Challenge: re-seeded database & img url is still getting cut off
- researched Python Google Maps wrapper

TODO


- distance is being calculated every time user clicks marker; need to fix
- link distance to actual Google Maps directions
- Euclidean distance isn't quite accurate; still returns results that are slightly out of bounds. Need to update equation.
- Add signup & sign in form
- switch form submission from GET to POST
- Add nav bar to allow people to modify search
- Allow registered users to save listings to their favorites
- Give markers special colors according to distance
- Add support for East Bay and Portland
- Add charts w/ average rent price, number of results
